+++
title = "How was this website built? & some notes on Hugo"
date = 2026-06-27
summary = "Why I picked Hugo for a portfolio + blog, and what I learned."
tags = ["web", "dev"]
categories = []
+++

**Why Hugo?**
Speed, portability and a single binary. The turnaround speed of the project is insane.
You setup a project instantly. Pick a theme. Make your changes to the content and styling.
Done.

I have used the [yassi theme](https://themes.gohugo.io/themes/hugo-theme-yassi/)
as I like its timeline blog layout and projects carousel.



When setting up a new project, the directory structure can feel overpopulated.
Each folder has its own purpose:

- `assets/` - contains global resources typically passed through an asset pipeline. This includes resources such as images, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, and TypeScript.
- `static/` - is an input folder where you manually place source assets.
- `public/` - (system generated) is an output folder automatically generated by Hugo.

- `content/` - holds the actual pages, articles, and **unstructured** text of your website (usually written in Markdown).
- `data/` - holds **structured**, programmatic information (like JSON, YAML, or TOML files) used to supplement your templates or create dynamic components.

- `config/` - contains your project configuration.
- `layouts/` - contains templates to transform content, data, and resources into a complete website.
- `i18n/` - contains translation tables for multilingual projects.
- `themes/` - contains one or more themes to be used in the project.
- `resources/` - (system generated) contains cached output from Hugo’s asset pipelines, generated when you run the `hugo build` or `hugo server` commands.
- `archetypes/` - contains templates for new content.
